## DESCRIPTION

emacs-jupyter connects to an in-process jupyter kernel, executes
notebook code, and displays the results automatically in a LaTeX or
Markdown buffer.

## INSTALLATION 

First install Pymacs - https://github.com/pinard/Pymacs. Build,
install. In your .emacs

```
(load-file "[PYMACS DIR]/pymacs.el")
```

Then pip install

```
ipython
matplotlib
```

In your .emacs add the snippet below. The code can seem excessive, but
the extra stuff was needed to be able to detect if I am in an .md or
.tex buffer so we can load the right module, also set the right tempo
template functions.

```
(defun reload-pymacs()
  (interactive)
  (if (buffer-live-p (get-buffer "*Pymacs*" ))
      (kill-buffer (get-buffer "*Pymacs*")))
  (message (buffer-file-name (current-buffer)))
  ;;
  ;; load tex or md mode based on the extension
  (if (equal (file-name-extension (buffer-file-name (current-buffer))) "tex")
      (progn 
	(pymacs-load "[INSTALL DIR]/ipython-tex")
	(global-set-key "\M-," 'ipython-tex-run-py-code)
	(global-set-key [f5] 'ipython-tex-complete-py)
	(tempo-define-template 
	 "tex-listings-python" 
	 '("\\begin{minted}[fontsize=\\footnotesize]{python}\n"
	   (s)
	   "\n\\end{minted}\n"
	   )
	 "")	
	))
  (if (equal (file-name-extension (buffer-file-name (current-buffer))) "md")
      (progn 
	(pymacs-load "[INSTALL DIR]/ipython-md")
	(global-set-key "\M-," 'ipython-md-run-py-code)
	(global-set-key [f5] 'ipython-md-complete-py)
	(tempo-define-template 
	 "tex-listings-python" 
	 '("```python\n"
	   (s)
	   "\n```\n"
	   )
	 "")	
	))

  )

(global-set-key [f1] 'tempo-template-tex-listings-python)
(global-set-key [f11] 'reload-pymacs)
```

For better management create a virtualenv environment, pip install the
necessary packages from there, install pymacs on it, then start emacs
with the bash script below,

```
#!/bin/bash
source /some/dir/yourenv/bin/activate
/usr/bin/emacs24
```

## FEATURES

* When you are in `\begin{minted}` and `\end{minted}` blocks, or its
equivalent in markdown, simply click on M-, or call
`'ipython-tex-run-py-code`, and all code in that block will be sent to
a ipython kernel and the result will be displayed underneath. Results
will be placed in `\begin{verbatim}`, `\end{verbatim}` blocks right
next to the code, with one space in between. If a verbatim blocks
already exists there, it will be refreshed. If not, it will be added.

* If on `\inputminted{python}{file.py}` block, code will be loaded
from script filename between the curly braces. Results outputted as
described above.

* If `plt.show()` is detected in code block, it will be replaced with
`plt.savefig(..)` command and a `\includegraphics` LaTeX command will
be added in the TeX buffer, same for Markdown. How do we determine
which image file name to generate? All previous image files with png
extension are searched, e.g. if `test_01.png`, `test_02.png` exist,
the new file will be the last one in the list plus 1, so in this case
`show()` will be replaced with `plt.savefig('test_03.png')`,

* After entering any expression, hit F-5 or call
`'ipython-tex-complete-py`, and emacs-ipython will show a list of
possible completions in a `*pytexipy*` buffer. This list comes
directly from ipython, hence it reflects the cumulation of runtime
code that has been executed and brought into memory thusfar through
multiple `'ipython-tex-run-py-code` calls.

## LIMITATIONS

* For now, there is one kernel per Emacs process.

* At the start, I have to hit f11 or `'reload-pymacs` to force
  initialization. However this command is useful for other purposes as
  well such as wanting to clean up ipyton memory and starting from
  scratch, anytime.

*  Markdown and LaTeX versions of the code can use some refactoring. 
  
## LICENSE

Emacs Jupyter is licensed under GPL v3. See COPYING for details.
  
![](emacs-ipython.png)

